as TE Lauren said all men dream but not
equally those who dream by night in the
dusty recesses of their minds waken the
day to find that it was vanity but the
dreamers of the day are dangerous men
for they may act on their dreams with
open eyes to make them possible that at
the end of the day is the very mission
of my life to get people to understand
that there is a difference between
dreaming and executing about doing
something based on the things that you
want to see happen in the world but most
people hit that moment of action and
they stop but they don't stop knowingly
they stop for a thousand different
reasons that they're never able to put
their finger on they stop because
they're tired they stop because
circumstance dictates they stop because
they don't have enough money they stop
because they're too young they stop
because they're too old they stop for a
whole host of reasons then at the end of
the day are total [__] the thing
that stops them is fear the thing that
stops them is a belief that they don't
even know they have that says that
they're never going to accomplish they
stop because they can't muster the
belief in themselves to move forward to
believe that their actions will have the
consequences that they want to believe
that they can learn the things that they
don't already understand to believe in
themselves that their actions will
generate a reward and that reward is
very simple that you can close your eyes
and imagine the world that you want to
create and open them and create it and
some people are stopped by something
even more dangerous they dream too small
and as David Ogilvy said don't bunt aim
out of the ballpark
aim for the company of the
you can do that when you can allow
yourself to dream at that level when you
can allow yourself to believe in
yourself to believe in your ability to
become the kind of person that can swing
for the fence is not only swing for the
fences but make contact to be able to
call your shot like Babe Ruth and knock
it out of the park when you can look at
yourself and have the arrogance of
belief in yourself that you are capable
of that that you are worthy of being
remembered that you are worthy of people
knowing your name then you will strike
out and have a chance of greatness but
it starts with that it starts with being
willing to believe that all the people
the wall of humanity that stands behind
you in the past none of them none of
them have anything that you don't and
the only difference between the greats
the only difference between those who
are remembered and those who are
forgotten is the willingness to step up
to the plate and call their shot
[Music]
will you have the guts to call yours as
vaclav havel said work for something
because it is good not just because it
stands a chance to succeed this is
something that I think a lot of people
misunderstand they think that the goal
of their life is to identify something
that will work to identify something
that has the odds stacked in its favor
rather than to think about what matters
what's important because if something is
important if it speaks to you if it's
going to give resonance to your life
then it's worth doing even if it's
something that is almost guaranteed to
fail when something matters enough
regardless of the odds it's worth
engaging with because even in the
pursuit you can find meaning and as
humans one of the things that we hunger
for most is purpose and meaning but you
can't have that purpose of meaning
without the thing that you're pursuing
be something that you believe to be
worthwhile so don't worry about whether
or not it succeeds ask only about
whether or not it's going to light you
on fire asked only if in those dark
moments that it will give you that sense
of mattering to this world that even in
the failure do you learn something about
yourself do you see the truth that you
matter and that even as a single person
even as one individual you can echo
through this world but that will never
happen by pursuing something small that
will never happen by pursuing something
simply because it can win it will only
happen by pursuing something that
matters and in that if you pursue
something it matters and you're able to
get to the point where you can see it
across the finish line or at least
advance it and make it a step closer to
becoming real in that we realize how
societies really are transformed in that
in trying the big the impossible
dreaming that thing that nobody else is
even willing to talk about in dream
it is the crazy ones who are able to
change the world because the crazy ones
allowed themselves to believe they
allowed themselves to believe that
against all the odds a world that does
not yet exist could actually exist and
as Ralph Marcin said welcome those big
sticky complicated problems in them are
your most powerful opportunities and
that's it the big problems the ones that
matter the things that will give you
purpose and meaning in your life they're
going to be hard but if you can look at
the hard things and show up and push
every day and keep striving and when you
fall down pick yourself back up and
focus only on one thing not whether or
not you're going to win but whether or
not it mattered that you played if you
do that every sacrifice in your life
will be worth it
and if not nothing you gain will have
mattered as Frederick Nietzsche said
many are stubborn and pursued the path
they have chosen few in pursuit of the
goal and that's one of the things that
really trips people up at the end of the
day a path is an option it's one of the
ways forward but it's the thing that
you're doing right now today so people
get really focused on that they make
their happiness built around that they
think about that
as the thing but as the old saying goes
don't confuse the finger with the moon
that it's pointing at that's where
you've got to be really careful at the
end of the day the goal is the thing
that you're trying to achieve the goal
is what you're trying to get the path is
irrelevant the path is really your best
guess it's the thing you think is going
to work but if you become my optically
focused on that if you think that the
path really is the end thing if you
think the finger actually is the moon
then you miss the objective to which
you're fighting for then you're not
gonna have the energy to keep pushing
when things get really hard because
you're going to have mistaken the way of
getting there with the destination
itself and I think that people a lot of
times throw hate on having a destination
on building towards some big goal of
having some grand thing that they're
chasing but as Einstein said if you want
to live a happy life tie it to a goal
not to people not to things and the
reason that he said
people and things they change you've got
no control over them at the end of the
day the only thing that you really
control is yourself at the end of the
day the only thing that you can hope for
is to be going after something that has
a mean something that has purpose
something that really gives you a reason
for being that directs your actions that
becomes the filter by which you judge
everything that really becomes the
center the gravitational center of your
own universe but it's the goal
so what is it that you really want you
have to identify that to me everything
in life everything in life starts with
the goal and then work your way
backwards don't allow yourself to get
caught up in other people and putting
your happiness and somebody else in
finding purpose in something else and
trying to obtain Athene's have it be
something that you're trying
of course have it be something that
you're trying to
once you're on the path to becoming then
you can find real
[Music]
you've got two choices in life choice
one you can become somebody else choice
- you can become yourself now I really
wish that there was only one choice but
in truth there's not in most people
choose to try to become someone else
because it's a road map its points in
the direction you see someone you
respond to something you admire them you
want to be like them and in that process
you've made your decision in that
process you've decided to become
somebody else you have mistaken the
finger for the moon instead you need to
understand the being inspired by
somebody does not mean to become that
person to become that which inspires you
it is to understand fundamentally what
is it about that thing that excites you
what is it what is its essence and when
you can find its essence then you can
find out how it would apply to you
becoming you and as then she says flower
does not think about competing with the
flower next to it it just blooms and
that's really your job is to see the
outside world to see the flower next to
you to understand the amazing things
that are happening all around you all of
the incredible people and the essence of
what they have and what it is that
they've done to bring inside yourself
and find out what does that look like
when it's me not what do I look like
when I'm
and once you understand the difference
between that then you can really begin
to be something unique you can become
that thing that you were meant to be
that thing that makes you feel alive and
whole and that's it that's the secret
you're just trying to be something not
that's just inspiring to other people
but that you actually want to wake up
every day and be and that's the [__]
thing about it
so escaping you whatever you become a
lie the truth somebody else yourself
whatever it is it's been every day of
your life there and as Albert Einstein
said everybody is a genius but if you
judge a fish by its ability to climb a
tree it will live it's whole life
believing that it's stupid
that's what confuses people people
believe that they're done because
they're not finding their path they're
not defining things based on what
excites them and what they want to live
with every day they're just looking to
what the outside world says is good and
I think it's incredible that there are
other people doing things that are so
extraordinary that we aspire to be like
that but you have to understand the
difference between being like someone
and trying to actually be that
so if what inspires you is that somebody
works hard work hard if what inspires
you is that somebody gets up every time
they fail to get up every time you fail
if what you like is that they're
themselves with all their weird
eccentricities and quirks then be true
to your eccentricities and quirks but
don't try to embody their eccentricities
and quirks that's the surest way to
become the fish that thinks it's stupid
because it's being judged by trying to
climb a tree
so if Scott Belsky said when 99% of the
people doubt your idea
you're either gravely wrong or about to
make history and that's the terrifying
part you're not gonna know you're not
gonna know the difference but if you're
chasing somebody else's path if your
whole game is emulation if your whole
game is to mimic that which inspires you
you will never find the thing that's
real about you and look I don't know
about you but I can be wrong I can be
gravely wrong I can have people think me
an idiot and try something and fail as
long as it was true to me because then
the lesson that I'm gonna learn is going
to apply it's gonna take me an ever step
closer to actually being the person that
I want to become that I want to live
with every day
if I don't understand who I want to be
so look inward identify your path
identify what excites you and go after
it as if your life depends on it because
in truth it does
all right listen and listen well because
no truer words are ever gonna be [__]
spoken you can do anything you want
without limitation whatever it is that
you decide you want to make come true in
your life you can do that it is gonna
take an inhuman amount of work you're
gonna have to be prepared to break
yourself in half you are going to have
to learn more than anyone has ever
learned you can have to push yourself
harder than anyone has ever asked you to
push yourself before you're gonna go way
beyond your breaking point you're gonna
run until you vomit you're gonna study
until you fall asleep you're going to
push and push and push and then you're
going to push some [__] more and when
you hit the limit you're gonna push
again beyond that you're gonna force
yourself into an adaptation response and
why because it's Malcolm X said the
future belongs to those who prepare for
it today so if you don't put the work in
today if you don't do the unending
back-breaking work of developing
yourself into something greater the
world is gonna pass you by the people
that are going to own it are gonna be
the ones that did that work and the one
promise that I can make you right now is
that somebody somebody out there is out
working somebody right now is doing the
things that I'm saying somebody right
now is doing the work of failing and
and getting better and pushing
themselves and triggering that glorious
adaptation response that makes humans
the apex predator someone right now
they're putting in that work and if you
don't the future is gonna belong to them
and as Martin Luther King jr. said you
can't fly than one if you can't run then
walk if you can't walk then crawl but
whatever you do you have to keep moving
forward it's not okay to make excuses
it's not gonna slow people down it's not
okay to ask the world to stop so that
you can step out front it's not okay to
expect little of yourself and demand
great rewards the only thing that's okay
is to be in line with the way that the
world really works and if you want to be
great you've got to become capable of
greatness
you've got to develop your skills that
you've got to take what you have now and
if that's crawling then [__] crawl
but you drag yourself ever forward to a
vision of yourself that is so clear and
so specific that not
to knock you off your path because you
my friends know exactly where you're
going you're willing to pay whatever
price it takes to get there and no
matter what anybody says no matter how
many [__] hecklers come for you no
matter how many people try to throw dirt
on you try to stop you try to knock you
down no matter how many [__] people
come for you at night while you sleep
you will rise and you will keep pushing
forward and you will get better every
day and no matter how many times people
chop at you knock you down knock you up
the pathways and get back on you will
crawl so you can walk through the walk
till you run and then you will run until
you fly and death my friends is the only
path forward so if you want a [__]
future that makes you happy if you want
a world that you're excited about get
your ass out there and earn it
as ernest hemingway noted the world
breaks everyone and afterward many are
stronger in the broken places but my
question is why isn't everyone to me it
comes down to the strategies that you
use there really isn't anything
objectively good or bad there isn't
anything that happens to you that can't
be overcome there isn't anything that
could happen to you anything that when
you turn inward you can't find a reason
to overcome you can't find a way to put
those pieces back together and that
becomes your job it becomes literally up
to you whether you're going to sit and
wallow and woe is me because what
happened happened and there's no way to
take it back but how you respond what
you bring to that table whether you meet
fire with fire whether you meet that
adversity with falling apart becoming
weaker in the areas that broke or you
bind them and mend them and it becomes
like a weld that literally makes you
stronger is a choice and it's a choice
only you get to make but as Stephen
Hawking said when you complain nobody
wants to help you there are many things
in your life do you have every reason to
complain about you have every reason to
be upset by the things that have
happened to you the most sinister thing
about excuses is they're valid there's a
million reasons why you should be able
to give up there's a million reasons why
you shouldn't need to try that thing
that broke you you should be allowed to
just sit on the ground and here's the
thing that's your right
you have every reason to do it and maybe
people won't even think less of you
but here's the truth why they become
weaker or stronger in the places that
broke and that's a choice of how you
react moving forward the great news is
the best thing that you could do to
become stronger is love yourself and as
Kamal Ravi Kahn said loving yourself is
a practice
people think that it's something that's
gonna feel right that it's gonna feel
natural that you're just gonna turn
inward and there it is the spark of love
and joy for yourself inside yourself but
the truth is that's just not the human
experience that's not the way that it
works there's gonna be a voice inside
your head and it's going to blame you
it's gonna say that it's your fault and
no matter how many times people on the
outside tell you that that is not true
that this thing happened to you that it
isn't you it doesn't define you there
will be a voice that's going to tell you
that it does and that's where you have
to fall back on process that's where you
have to realize that you literally have
to practice loving yourself and that
it's okay that no matter what happened
there is absolutely nothing that
invalidates that you're worthy of your
own love but you've got to practice it
you've got to be willing to do it you've
got to be willing to put in the reps
you've got to know that it's not gonna
feel right but you've got to know on the
other side of that is a vision of your
life where you actually do love yourself
because you took the time to say it you
took the time to practice it you took
the time to sit there and feel stupid
and say that you love yourself and
sometimes just putting in the work is
what you need to do to get strong
so put in the work
as Daniel ping said people fail to
achieve mastery not because they aren't
talented but because they aren't
disciplined the wonderful news about the
human condition is you can get good at
anything that you set your mind to it's
just not going to be easy and it's not
gonna be fast but the willingness to put
in that work is what's going to separate
you from everybody else and I'm begging
you to see yourself right now today as
average as know better than anyone else
but I beg you with more force than I
know how to convey with this language to
see yourself as malleable to see
yourself as capable of becoming anything
you want to become to become truly
extraordinary if you can find within
yourself the discipline to stick with it
long enough and as Steve Martin said
perseverance is a great substitute for
talent
everybody wants to talk about who's
talented everybody looks at the person
with innate talent as if they have
something magical but to me it's a gift
it's a handout it's a freebie it hasn't
been earned and no matter what it is
it's only the beginning even somebody
that has talent even if you get an early
win if you let somebody outwork you if
you let somebody who has more
perseverance more grit
you than they are going to outperform
you on a long enough timeline the only
thing I can guarantee is you will be out
work by somebody unless you pour your
heart and soul into getting great if you
don't take days off if you put yourself
into it as if your life depended on it
when you act like that then you've got a
chance to be great and as Robert Horry
said pressure can bust pipes but it can
also make diamonds you've got to want
that pressure you've got to want things
to be hard you can't seek out the easy
life you can't just hope and pray that
you can uncover inside of you some
talent that's lay dormant that you
didn't know about that's gonna let
things be easy for you don't want the
easy want the hard want the pressure
want the thing that's going to turn you
into something because when it's easy
you don't work for it when it's easy you
don't push when it's easy you get
surpassed by the person who has to give
it their all who's prepared to do blood
sweat and tears in order to become that
thing that they want to be so badly
because they are so [__] angry that
they were never given anything and with
that chip on their shoulder they're
determined to become anything that they
set their mind to so whether you have
talent whether you don't the only thing
that matters is will you persevere
will you stick with it long enough to
get great
[Music]
as Thomas Jefferson said he who knows
best knows just how little he knows this
has been one of the most surreal things
about my experience as an entrepreneur
is that the better I get at it the more
that I do the more I feel lost the more
I feel like there's too much for me to
possibly know and understand and in that
is my power that's literally the source
of my power because I understand that my
journey is one of learning I understand
that as navall Ravi Kant said the
genuine love for reading itself when
cultivated is a superpower the means of
learning are abundant it's the desire to
learn that scarce but if you have that
desire if you cultivate that desire to
learn if you accept that you're in this
big world that is far too big for you to
understand every piece of it but in
recognizing that you don't understand it
all and putting yourself on this quest
to learn obsessively to get better to
fall in love with the actual process of
gaining knowledge if you stay hungry for
that at all times and you don't calcify
your thoughts into Dogma but rather stay
fresh stay naive stay hungry and foolish
to really learn and grow then you
actually obtain power and this is the
part I want people to understand look
past the words and hear what I'm really
saying as you take on the knowledge as
you're learning one thing after another
after another those skills have
practical application and it is that
practical application born of
understanding how little you really know
that allows you to become far more
powerful than the people that think they
know because when they think they know
they stop throwing and they think they
know they calcify when they think they
know their thoughts get brittle like
bone and break
[Music]
you think you know nothing and you think
you have to learn everything when you're
really just trying to figure out if
something works if it gets you the
result then those skills become real
they become tested by what you're doing
they are boundless because you're always
trying to find that next thing you're
never self-satisfied you're never self
congratulatory you're simply asking
where do I want to go what skills do I
need to acquire to get there and knowing
that each one of those that you get
brick by brick by brick builds a real
path to where you want to go so fall in
love with the idea that you know nothing
fall in love with the idea that learning
is a superpower fall in love with that
hunger want that want to get better
every day never never be tricked by the
desire to be self-satisfied be never be
tricked by the desire to be great today
never fool yourself into thinking who
you are today is who you can become
I don't care how far you've come I don't
care how many accomplishments are in
your rear view mirror if you fall prey
to that your past will always be bigger
than your future and there's one mandate
that I make of myself and anyone else
that wants to be around that your future
must always be bigger than your past and
the only way for that to be true is to
love how little you really know and to
love
how much you can learn if you just keep
going
as Oprah Winfrey said what you dwell on
is what you become once you understand
that humans are the ultimate adaptation
machine and you understand that the
brain actually builds faster and better
connections between the things you think
on you will begin to understand that it
is incredibly important to be thoughtful
about what you think about it's
incredibly important to pick a direction
that you want to grow and to decide who
you want to become and then make that
the center of your focus your thoughts
your time your energy and if you look
inward or if you look outward and you
don't like what you see
remember what Jim Rohn said if you don't
like how things are change it you're not
a tree and that's the beauty that's the
beautiful thing about being a human we
are so plastic and we can change so
dramatically we are so good at adapting
that we forget that's literally what we
do but if you can take control of that
process if you can grab ahold of it and
make it your own if you can make it your
daily obsession to make the most of your
potential to pick a very specific
direction to pick an end goal and end
state and end identity and work your way
backwards find out the steps that you're
going to need to take to get there to
execute and have the willingness to put
in the work to have the willingness
be both the sculptor and the clay to
understand that the suffering that comes
with that of changing yourself of making
yourself into something great is the
suffering well working
it's a suffering that you should embrace
it's a suffering that you should run
towards because in that suffering you
can become any thing you want so start
to dwell on that dwell on a vision of
you being great dwell on a vision of you
accomplishing your goals dwell on a
vision of you having done this amazing
thing that you want to do dwell on an
image of you being willing to sweat and
bend yourself in half and break if need
to and bleed when necessary to become
the vision of yourself you always knew
you could become dwell on that and
nothing can stop it
as epictetus said he is a wise man who
does not grieve for things which he has
not but rejoices for those which he has
and that's gratitude isn't it it's the
very base decision that we all have to
make are you grateful for the things you
have in your life or are you always
wanting more and trust me I get it I
understand people that strive for more I
understand people that want something
bigger and better but at the same time
if you allow yourself to only think
about what you don't have to only be
striving for something more that that
obsession will begin to overtake you it
will begin to corrode you but ultimately
it's a choice ultimately at any time
right now in this moment you can stop
and think about what you have you can
put your attention on the things you're
grateful for and watch what it does
watch what it does in that instance the
way that it changes you the way that it
changes your chemistry your feelings in
a moment can shift from negative and
dark to beautiful with nothing else
changing around you nothing but you
deciding that you're gonna focus on the
things you're grateful for nothing but
deciding that there are things in your
life to be grateful for and that is a
decision no matter what is happening in
your life at any moment right now in the
depths of a depression in something
going on terribly in your life you can
choose right now to think about the
things you're grateful for the breeze a
smile from somebody kind a stranger who
holds open a door for you anything but
it's a choice and as Einstein said there
are only two ways to live your life one
is as though nothing is a miracle the
other is as though everything is a
miracle and what choice are you making
what are you choosing to focus on right
now do you let gratitude fill you up or
not and here's the critical part and I
want you to listen to this really well
whatever you decide whether you decide
we live in a
of miracles or whether we decide to live
in a world devoid of miracles you are
choosing one thing to the exclusion of
the other and when you focus on
something that you're grateful for when
you look at those little moments in your
life and choose to see them as grand
miracles even when it is only like the
gentle hand on your shoulder even then
it's only a kiss from somebody who you
kissed a thousand times before even when
it is only holding the hand of somebody
who needed their hand held even when
it's something that simple
[Music]
it really is a miracle that it really is
something that can fill you it really is
something that will change your
chemistry bring a connection between two
people allow you to see a grander Vista
or even just open a window and look out
at the world and realize that you're
alive that this is all a miracle that
none of this is guaranteed that every
breath you take could be your last and
in that you can choose to cherish what
you have in that you can decide to focus
on that you have a breath to take and
even when it's something that simple
when you train your mind to do that when
you train yourself to decide to see the
beauty in that that nobody can ever take
it away from you and matter where you
are no matter what's going on in your
life you'll be able to rise up and feel
the beauty that is being alive so take a
minute at the worst times in your life
and focus on the things you're grateful
for
I want you to burn into your nervous
system the following statement because
it is a fundamental truth of the human
condition it is literally the base line
physics of what it means to be a person
as Earl Nightingale said we become what
we think about and that's an idea that I
want you to hold firmly in your mind
that's something that I really want you
to internalize I really want you to stop
right now whatever you're doing I want
you to stop lean into this video and
listen to what I'm saying you will
become what you think about really think
about that for a second as if it wasn't
just a phrase as if it's more than just
words as if it were a truth about how
the brain works because it is you're
going to become the thing that you think
about and I know that you're dwelling on
a lot of negative [__] I know that
you're carrying a lot of baggage with
you and I know that as you think about
how things might go wrong that you
believe you believe to the core of your
being that you're just planning for the
hard times but the truth is you're going
to become those things that you fear
you're going to become the things that
you dread if you're thinking about all
the things you've done long in the past
you are going to simply continue that
cycle but if on the other hand and let
this be true let this ring in your ears
with the weight of everything that I
carry if I've ever added an ounce of
value to you if anything I have ever
said it seemed remotely true believe
that these are the most important words
I'm ever going to save you if you begin
to focus on positive things if you begin
to focus on your capabilities if you
begin to focus on a potential that you
have if you really dig in build those
skills drive towards something beautiful
something amazing something that leaves
you in awe you want to create that you
want to become the vessel for that then
you will you will become that thing
because you will take those steps
because you become what you think about
and as Mark Twain said 20 years from now
you'll be more disappointed by the
things that you didn't do so if you
don't take those steps if you don't
focus on those things if you don't
manifest what we want to become if you
don't believe in it if you don't see how
real it could be if you can't picture
the version of yourself that you want to
become and even though people have told
you that it's not possible for you that
the things you did in the past are never
going to allow you to do that that
you're not smart enough if you let that
creep into your mind then that's what's
gonna happen but if you can see that
vision if you can allow yourself to
believe it then you're going to take the
steps that you need to execute against
that and if you go out there and do
those things you won't regret it but you
will regret it if you don't
so get out right now and build the
person you want to be so you can have
the life you want to have
[Music]
you